readme refresh for GitHub Actions repo (#21)
fermyon/actions: README.md

# `fermyon/actions` - GitHub Action collection for Spin and Fermyon Cloud

With the `fermyon/actions` collection, you can incorporate [Spin](https://developer.fermyon.com/spin/index) and [Fermyon Cloud](https://developer.fermyon.com/cloud/index) in your [GitHub Action](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/configuring-a-workflow). 

This collection of Actions enables the following use cases:

> - [x] setup Spin CLI and plugins using [`fermyon/actions/spin/setup`](#install-spin-cli-and-plugins---fermyonactionspinsetup)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [x] set up Spin CLI and plugins using [`fermyon/actions/spin/setup`](#install-spin-cli-and-plugins---fermyonactionspinsetup)
```

- [x] build and push your Spin app to an OCI registry using [`fermyon/actions/spin/push`](#push-spin-app-to-an-oci-registry---fermyonactionspinpush)
- [x] deploy your Spin app to Fermyon Cloud using [`fermyon/actions/spin/deploy`](#deploy-spin-app-to-fermyon-cloud---fermyonactionspindeploy)

Let's take a look at each one to learn about the required inputs and walk through an example. 

> ## Install Spin CLI and Plugins - `fermyon/action/spin/setup`

Reviewer: Should we show a version on the actions a la `fermyon/action/spin/setup@v1` or whatever the format is?

> ## Install Spin CLI and Plugins - `fermyon/action/spin/setup`

Reviewer: On line 7 it says `fermyon/actions...` plural rather than `fermyon/action...` singular.  Which is correct?

(This affects the other subheadings too, and this may affect the internal links on lines 7-9.)

setup `spin` with optional plugins

### Inputs

| Name         | Required | Default | Description                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------ | -------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | version      | False | latest       | The version of `spin` to install. Supports [semver](https://www.npmjs.com/package/semver) versioning                                          |

Reviewer: I know the text was already there but I am not sure "supports semver" is true (at least in the linked sense of allowing npm version patterns).  Looking at the code it seems to just interpolate this string directly into the download URL.  But I may be missing something?  @rajatjindal can you clarify?

Author: Good question! Not sure the answer. Tagging @rajatjindal for help :)

Reviewer 2: yes we don't explicitly validate, we can remove that possibly.

> | plugins      | False | -       | The comma-separated list of `spin plugins` to install. You can learn more about Spin plugins [here](https://github.com/fermyon/spin-plugins)                                                                                         |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| plugins      | False | -       | The comma-separated list of Spin plugins to install. [Learn more about Spin plugins.](https://developer.fermyon.com/spin/managing-plugins)                                                                                         |
```

> | github_token | False | -       | The `GitHub` token for querying/downloading `spin` releases. If provided, it avoids Github api rate limiting during Github actions executions |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| github_token | False | -       | The GitHub token for querying/downloading `spin` releases. If provided, it avoids GitHub API rate limiting during GitHub actions executions |
```

# `fermyon/actions` - GitHub Action collection for Spin and Fermyon Cloud

With the `fermyon/actions` collection, you can incorporate [Spin](https://developer.fermyon.com/spin/index) and [Fermyon Cloud](https://developer.fermyon.com/cloud/index) in your [GitHub Action](https://help.github.com/en/actions/automating-your-workflow-with-github-actions/configuring-a-workflow). 

This collection of Actions enables the following use cases:

- [x] set up Spin CLI and plugins using [`fermyon/actions/spin/setup@v1`](#install-spin-cli-and-plugins---fermyonactionsspinsetupv1)
- [x] build and push your Spin app to an OCI registry using [`fermyon/actions/spin/push@v1`](#push-spin-app-to-an-oci-registry---fermyonactionsspinpushv1)
- [x] deploy your Spin app to Fermyon Cloud using [`fermyon/actions/spin/deploy@v1`](#deploy-spin-app-to-fermyon-cloud---fermyonactionsspindeployv1)

> - [x] deploy PR preview to Fermyon Cloud [`fermyon/action/spin/preview@v1`](#deploy-preview-of-spin-app-to-fermyon-cloud---fermyon/action/spin/preview@v1)

Reviewer: The other actions are `fermyon/actions` rather than `fermyon/action` - do we know which is right?

Reviewer 2: `fermyon/actions` is the right one

> - [x] deploy PR preview to Fermyon Cloud [`fermyon/action/spin/preview@v1`](#deploy-preview-of-spin-app-to-fermyon-cloud---fermyon/action/spin/preview@v1)

Reviewer: In the other links, the `/` and `@` characters are slugified away - is it correct that that is not done in this one?

Let's take a look at each one to learn about the required inputs and walk through an example. 

## Install Spin CLI and Plugins - `fermyon/actions/spin/setup@v1`

setup `spin` with optional plugins

### Inputs

| Name         | Required | Default | Description                                                                                                                                   |
| ------------ | -------- | ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | version      | False | latest       | The version of `spin` to install.                                         |

Reviewer: I would recommend reverting the "required" column content to "Required/Optional" rather than "False/True."  This makes it more self-documenting for the reader, who doesn't need to scoot their eye up to the header to figure out _what_ is false or true, plus for cases like `undeploy` where the _value_ is a boolean it avoids potential mixups of "now am I looking at the default here."  This might seem silly for such small tables but I hit this speed-bump repeatedly while reading this!

        run: "spin --version"
```

> ## Push Spin app to an OCI Registry - `fermyon/action/spin/push`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Push Spin app to a Registry - `fermyon/action/spin/push`
```

> Build and push the `spin` app to your desired OCI Registry (note that this registry must have a publicly accessible endpoint)

Reviewer: Worth noting this requires the setup action?  (i.e. it doesn't install Spin itself)

### Inputs

| Name               | Required |  Default   |Description                                                                |
| ------------------ | -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | registry_reference | True | -         | Push the spin app to your desired OCI Registry. e.g. ghcr.io/fermyon/cloud-start:v0.0.1 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| registry_reference | True | -         | The registry and reference for to publish the app to e.g. ghcr.io/fermyon/cloud-start:v0.0.1 |
```

        run: "spin --version"
```

> ## Push Spin app to a Registry - `fermyon/actions/spin/push`

Reviewer: Other actions include an `@v1` - should this one?

> Build and push the `spin` app to your desired OCI Registry (note that this registry must have a publicly accessible endpoint). Also note this action has a prerequisite on Spin already being installed. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build and push the Spin app to your desired OCI Registry (note that this registry must have a publicly accessible endpoint). Also note this action has a prerequisite on Spin already being installed. 
```

### Inputs

| Name               | Required |  Default   |Description                                                                |
| ------------------ | -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | registry_reference | True | -         | The registry and reference for to publish the app to e.g. ghcr.io/fermyon/cloud-start:v0.0.1 |

Reviewer: `for to` -> `to`?

| manifest_file      | False | spin.toml | Path to `spin.toml`                                                        |
| registry           | False | -         | if provided, used to login to OCI Registry                                 |
| registry_username  | False | -         | if provided, used to login to OCI Registry                                 |

> | registry_password  | False | -         | if provided, used to login to OCI Registry                                 |

Reviewer: I notice the example is showing `docker/login-action` rather than using this action's registry auth.  It would be good to show these fields in action (particularly with GHCR and a GH registry token, since this is a GH action).

## Deploy Spin app to Fermyon Cloud - `fermyon/action/spin/deploy`

> Build and deploy the `spin` app to Fermyon Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build and deploy the Spin app to Fermyon Cloud.
```

### Inputs

| Name          | Required | Default   | Description                                                                       |
| ------------- | -------- | --------- |  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | fermyon_token | True | -         | Fermyon Cloud Personal access token for deploying the `spin` app to Fermyon Cloud |

Reviewer: Link to docs on creating a PAT?

> | fermyon_token | True | -         | Fermyon Cloud Personal access token for deploying the `spin` app to Fermyon Cloud |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fermyon_token | True | -         | Fermyon Cloud Personal Access Token for deploying the `spin` app to Fermyon Cloud |
```

(or all lower case, I'm not fussed, but the current capitalisation looks like it's an access token to Fermyon Cloud Personal _grin_)

> | manifest_file | False | spin.toml | Path to `spin.toml`. Used with the `build`/`deploy` command.                      |

Reviewer: The 'push' action doesn't have a corresponding second sentence; it would be good to be consistent.  (I would drop the second sentence here.)

## Deploy Spin app to Fermyon Cloud - `fermyon/actions/spin/deploy@v1`

Build and deploy the Spin app to Fermyon Cloud.

### Inputs

| Name          | Required | Default   | Description                                                                       |
| ------------- | -------- | --------- |  --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | fermyon_token | True | -         | Fermyon Cloud Personal Access Token for deploying the `spin` app to Fermyon Cloud |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fermyon_token | True | -         | Fermyon Cloud Personal Access Token for deploying the Spin app to Fermyon Cloud |
```

> | manifest_file | False | spin.toml | Path to `spin.toml`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| manifest_file | False | spin.toml | Path to `spin.toml`. |
```

          fermyon_token: ${{ secrets.FERMYON_CLOUD_TOKEN }}
```

> ## Deploy preview of Spin app to Fermyon Cloud - `fermyon/action/spin/preview@v1`

Reviewer: `action` or `actions`

> Build and deploy the `spin` app preview to Fermyon Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build and deploy the Spin app preview to Fermyon Cloud
```

### Inputs

| Name          | Required | Default   | Description                                                                       |
| ------------- | -------- |--------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | fermyon_token | True | -         | Fermyon Cloud Personal access token for deploying the `spin` app to Fermyon Cloud |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| fermyon_token | True | -         | Fermyon Cloud Personal access token for deploying the Spin app to Fermyon Cloud |
```

> | fermyon_token | True | -         | Fermyon Cloud Personal access token for deploying the `spin` app to Fermyon Cloud |

Reviewer: Because of the odd capitalisation, "Fermyon Cloud Personal access token" to me parses as "an access token for Fermyon Cloud Personal."  "Personal Access Token" should be either all capitalised or all lower case.  (All capitalised is more usual and is what we do in the deploy action - not sure why this is different.)

Also it would be good to link the docs on how to get a PAT.

> | manifest_file | False | spin.toml | Path to `spin.toml`. Used with the `build`/`deploy` command.                      |

Reviewer: In other actions we don't explain that `spin.toml` is used with the build/deploy command.  Should we be consistent?  (I'd say drop it here.)

> | github_token  | True | -         | The `GitHub` token for updating comment on PR                                     |

Reviewer: What comment?

> | github_token  | True | -         | The `GitHub` token for updating comment on PR                                     |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| github_token  | True | -         | The GitHub token for updating comment on PR                                     |
```

> | undeploy      | False | -         | If true, removes the preview deployment from Fermyon Cloud                        | 

Reviewer: This raises more questions than it answers - if I set this to true, does the action do a preview deploy then undeploy?  If so, how do I see the preview?  If not, when do I use the undeploy option?  Is this undeploying a previous preview?  What if I have deployed two previews, which one does it undeploy?  What happens if undeployment fails, does it stop the PR from closing?

Reviewer 2: may be we just remove this flag and un-deploy the preview automatically?

Reviewer: That would be amazing if it were possible, but how would it work?  I would assume you'd need _some_ event after the initial preview deployment to perform the undeployment...?

Honestly, given how widely and successfully we've been using the preview action internally, I don't feel like it needs changing, it's clearly very successful the way it is.  We just need to explain this flag a little more, so that people who don't have us setting up their actions can understand how to make it work.

Reviewer 2: let me take a first shot at it to give context, but I look forward to hearing a better way from you.

going to add the following quote before the table. 

> For triggering Github action on PR closed, add the `closed` activity type to the keyword `types`. Refer to [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows#pull_request) for more details on activity types.
> 
> Then you can add `undeploy: ${{ github.event.pull_request && github.event.action == 'closed' }}` as input to the action. This will ensure `undeploy` is set to `true` only when the Github action is triggered by a PR closed event.

Reviewer 2: so an alternative could be to just provide the info to user on how to add `closed` event as trigger and then handle closing of the Preview automatically

Reviewer: I like that, and would suggest maybe just adding a bit of context around the lifecycle that we're facilitating with the deploy-undeploy behaviour.  How about something like:

> The preview lifecycle is typically to deploy a preview when a pull request is created or updated, and to remove it when the PR is closed.  To do this, create a workflow whose trigger is _(list of actions)_, and set the preview action's `undeploy` flag to _(appropriate formula)_.  The `undeploy` flag will thus resolve to `false` (deploy a preview, or update the existing preview) on PR creation or update, and to `true` (remove the preview) on PR closure.  See below for an example.
>
> If you have multiple PRs in flight, the action 'knows' which preview is associated with which PR, and will update or remove only that preview.
>
> If you don't run the preview action with `undeploy` on the closed event, your preview will remain deployed, and will count against any Fermyon Cloud account limits.

(Obviously please correct any misconceptions I have here - as you can see I am not terribly familiar with how the action works!  And other feedback welcome too of course!)

Reviewer 2: this is perfect. thank you Ivan.
